Yo, what is up, YouTube? Welcome back to my channel, Book Reviews with Moises.
So, for the book that we are going to be reviewing today, we are going to be reviewing The Mind is Flat,
a book in psychology and science. Usually, every book that I get, I love to go to my local Barnes & Noble
and browse and, you know, just see what book catches my eye and my attention.
What is this book about? And one of the biggest main ideas of this book kind of says it in the name,
The Mind is Flat. This book provides a sense of how shallow the mind can be, how
the mind is capable of creating fiction on the spot. I could be in this very spot creating
imaginative stories, fiction, something that isn't true, a prediction, an assumption, judgment.
The mind is more than capable of creating fiction through story. So, guys, let's take a look at
what's inside the book. So, there's actually part one and part two. Part one is more on a
scientific level and part two is more on the psychological level. Part one, the illusion of
mental depth. One, the power of invention. Two, the feeling of reality. Three, anatomy of a hoax.
Four, the inconstant imagination. Five, inventing feelings. Six, manufacturing choice.
Part two, the improvised mind. The cycle of thought. Eight, the narrow channel of consciousness.
Nine, the myth of unconscious thought. Ten, the boundary of consciousness.
Eleven, precedence, not principles. Twelve, the secret of intelligence and an epilogue,
reinventing ourselves. All right, guys. So, what do I like the most about this book?
My favorite part about this book is the main idea that I had referred to earlier. And that
main idea was basically how the mind is more than capable of creating stories that are essentially
fiction. It's almost not real. And I've heard this time and time again. The subconscious doesn't know
the difference between reality and imagination. Just think of the general human. How many stories
of fiction is the general human creating on a daily basis? How many of those stories are true?
This book really provided me a sense of psychological framework that I applied to my
sense of mindfulness. I'm able to acknowledge the voice and what the voice creates inside the mind.
And most of the time, the voice creates fiction. Whether it's an assumption, a prediction, judgment,
the mind is flat. The mind is more than capable of creating feelings, thought processes,
moods, emotions, moment by moment. Thoughts are created moment by moment. These thoughts,
all these thoughts come and go. Which one of these thoughts are true? Which one of these thoughts
are fiction? All right, guys. So, my favorite chapters, inventing feelings. Like we said earlier,
the mind is more than capable of creating thought process, fiction, stories, moment by moment.
Moment by moment. We're creating new thoughts. We're creating new stories. We're creating new
judgment, assumptions, predictions. We're more than capable of inventing feelings. I'm more than
convinced that each individual on this planet is more than capable of creating their reality.
I'm almost convinced that we're more than capable of inventing, inventing feelings. But I want to
say that most of the time, I'm the one creating those emotions through thought process, through
stimulus. That chapter really showcases the idea of how we really invent our emotions. We really,
I can't speak for everybody, but for me as the individual, I'm more than capable of creating
feelings. I can create emotion. For my next favorite chapter, manufacturing choice. This whole idea
of manufacturing choice, guys, is very not only important, but significant, how we have the power
to manufacture choice. We have the power to choose whether we want to choose to be happy
or whether we want to choose to be sad. Whether we want to choose to think a specific way or
whether we choose to act a specific way. Each individual has the power to manufacture choice.
And in this chapter, it explains how we can do that. But yeah, guys, those are definitely my
two favorite chapters. It really kind of opened up perspective on a psychological level for me.
For the rest of the book, it's a lot of science. So who should read this book? I recommend this
book to any kind of academic researcher, anybody who's studying psychology. I don't really recommend
this to anyone who is just like likes to read. I feel like this is more of like a research
book, almost in a sense of theory, which makes sense to my perception. Anybody that likes psychology,
I highly recommend this book. The mind is very improvised. Whether it's thought process, behavior,
emotions, mood, we create all of that moment by moment. Are you interested in reading this book?
Let me know in the comment section down below and tune in for next time with book reviews with Moises.